This is an effort to build a method for bulk mineral classification of tabular geochemical data. The algorithm fits unknowns to ideal mineral chemistry by subtracting observed from expected molar percentages. The smallest misfit is reported as the mineral, and an adjusted misfit metric is reported as the "mismatch percent". In general a mismatch percent below ~20 is a good indication that the classification is close. 

Now the problem. This algorithm is uninformed about Goldschmidt style replacement. This means mineral species that are prone to solid solution behaviour (e.g., Columbite (Fe,Mn)Nb2O6, and tantalite (Fe,Mn)Ta2O6), may be misclassified as neither end-member if the unknown has a middling values in the replacing elements (e.g., Nb and Ta in columbite-tantalite). There is another issue with "simple" minerals. The characteristic example of this error is pyrite (FeS) being consistently misclassified as arsenopyrite (FeAsS). This is due to contaminent or trace elements reducing the ideal molar percentage of Fe and S (50% for each). As the observed values of Fe and S approach the expected values in arsenopyrite (33%) the algorithm may score arsenopyrite as the more likely mineral whether or not there is As present. 

A revised version of this algorthm may involve clustering prior to classification to produce a better element abundance estimate from the aggregate values of the cluster. It could also break classification into multiple phases, first identifying mineral families (micas, amphiboles, pyroxenes, etc.) and only then classifying speficic mineral species. Either way, such an algorithm will not likely appear in this repo without external influence.

Data are unpublished, collected during the work leading up to Nissen (2024).

Nissen, A, 2024, Mica geochemistry, and paired in situ 87Rb/87Sr and in situ 40Ar/39Ar geochronology of the Brazil Lake Li-Cs-Ta pegmatite, Nova Scotia, Canada, MSc. thesis, Saint Mary's University, Halifax, Nova Scotia
